- Alright, now we have understood the basic concepts
of Docker, but what would your day-to-day
Docker workflow look like?
What tools would you interact with?
How would you create this image?
How would you run this container?
What configurations need to be done?
Let's take a look at that.
So, in one slide, if I were to explain this,
these are some of the key components
that you would interact on a regular basis.
Let's try to understand this image first of all.
Well, it's got three big blue boxes.
On the left what you see is Docker "Client",
also called Docker "CLI".
In the middle what you see is a Docker "Host"
or a Docker "Engine", those terminologies are
typically interchangeable, and in the far right
is what you call a "Registry".
Now, lets go back to our build, ship and run concept here.
Okay, so the "build" part as we said is an image.
"ship" is a registry, and a registry
is sitting on the right.
And "run" is a container.
So, as you can see, the images and the containers
are sitting on the Docker host over here.
Okay, let's try to understand how our overall workflow
is going to look now.
So, first of all Docker client.
We'll talk a out how Docker client can be installed,
but lets say you have the Docker client on your machine,
then the Docker client is configured to talk to
a Docker host.
It could be a single docker host,
or it could be a cluster of Docker hosts.
In later chapters we'll talk about
how we set up a cluster of Docker hosts,
but the important part to understand is
client is a "dumb client".
It's a stateless client.
There is no state on the client at all.
The client says "I want to run a container",
which is a Docker run command.
Now, the client is configured to talk to Docker_Host
it gives the command to Docker_Host,
on Docker_Host there is a Docker daemon running,
which is listening for that command.
The client gives the command "docker run",
but if you have to look under the hood,
it is basically a REST API call,
which goes as a REST API
and Docker daemon is listening on a specific port
for that REST request.
It understands that request.
So, the client said "docker run", okay?
Docker says, "In order to run a container
I need to have the image".
By default Docker daemon, or Docker_Host
is configured to talk to a registry,
which is Docker hub, which is hub.docker.com.
So it queries the registry,
says, "Hey do you have this image?
Because I need to run this container".
Lets say you want to run a simple Nginx container
or a simple Couchbase container,
or an Ubuntu container.
So it queries the registry.
Registry has, well first of all,
registry is where anybody can publish a Docker image.
So typically if it's an N ginx container
it is published by the entity behind it.
For example for Couchbase,
Couchbase has an image on Docker hub.
So anybody and everybody can push an image
on the public Docker hub.
So now, Docker_Host is saying,
"I want to download an image".
It downloads the image on the Docker_Host.
Remember we said Client is stateless?
The state is maintained on Docker_Host.
You can download as many images on Docker_Host
via the client.
The client gives a command,
the image is stored on the Docker host.
Now, once you have the host
and you want to run the container.
Sure, the image is downloaded once,
but you can run as many instances of the container.
So lets think about the flow once again.
The client makes a request,
docker run, a container, goes to Docker_Host.
Docker_Host says, "I don't have the image.
If I have the image I will run the container.
If I don't have the image I will download the image
from the Docker hub, and once the image is downloaded
I will run the container.
All this happens behind the scenes.
You don't need to worry about it, but sometimes
understand if we look under the hood
on what's happening and what's going on.
Now there are lots of varieties and flavors
that we can do to this.
As we said, the first flavor is "I don't want to have
a single Docker host,
because that's a single point of failure for me".
So I can have a cluster of Docker hosts,
and later in this course we will look at
"How can we have a cluster of Docker hosts?"
Now, the second flavor is where you can say,
"I don't want to have, I'm not creating images
that should not be available on the public Docker hub.
I want to have an internal registry".
So, Docker gives you this commercial product
called "Docker Trusted Registry"
or there is an open source project
that you can deploy internally,
and similarly there are registries by other companies
like JFrog, which you can deploy inside your firewall.
So, that's another variation that's possible.
In your typical day-to-day workflow
that is your typical model,
where the client makes a request to the host,
which downloads an image from the registry,
and runs the container.